#summary Documentation for the access control option

NOTE this document is not complete

= Defining access permissions =
In JANUS a number of different elements are defined that you can control
access to. A complete list can be seen in the _Configuration options_ section. The access
definitions are done using arrays. The syntax is as following:

{{{
'ELEMENT' => array(
    'default' => BOOLEANVALUE,
    'STATE' => array(
        'role' => array(
            'USERTYPE',
	),
    ),
    'STATE' => array(
        'role' => array(
	    'USERTYPE',
	),
    ),
    ...
),
}}}

Allowed values for `STATE` is the states defined in the `workflowstates`
option. The allowed values for `USERTYPE` is the usertypes defined in the
`usertypes` option and the value 'all'. Furthermore you can negate the
values by prefixing the value with a '-'.

If the element do not relate to a state, i.e.it is *global*, then the `role` parameter should replace
the `STATE` parameter. By setting the `dafault` parameter, you will control
access to all states you have not defined access for and for usertypes not set.

You can define multible instances of the `STATE` parameter, one for each defined state in  `workflowstates`. This gives you very fine grained access control opportunities.

= Configuration options =

|| *Name* || *Global* || *Description* || 
|| changeentitytype || false || Allow the user to change the entity type of entities || 
|| exportmetadata || false || Allow users to export metadata for entities ||
|| blockremoteentity || false || Block or unblock remote entities ||
|| changeworkflow || false || Change workflow state ||
|| changearp || false || Change ARP ||
|| editarp || false || Edit ARP ||
|| addearp || false || Add ARP ||
|| addmetadata || false || Add metadata ||
|| deletemtadata || false || Delete metadata ||
|| modifymetadata || false || Edit metadata ||
|| importmetadata || false || Inport metadata ||
|| entityhistory || false || See History tab ||
|| disableconcent || false || Disable consent ||
|| createnewentity || true || Create new entity ||
|| showsubscriptions || true || Show subscriptions ||
|| editsubscriptions || true || Edit subscriptions ||
|| addsubscriptions || true || Add subscriptions ||
|| deletesubscriptions || true || Delete subscriptions ||
|| exportallentities || true || Export all entities ||
|| arpeditor || true || ARP editor tab ||
|| federationtab || true || Federation tab ||
|| admintab || true || Adminitsartion tab ||
|| adminusertab || true || Adminitsartion users tab ||
|| allentities || true || Access to all entities ||
|| experimental || true || Experimental features ||

If a permission is not set for a given user for a given state, the `default` permission is given.

If a permission for some reason or another is not set at all, no permission is given to any user.