#summary Contributing to JANUS

We would like as many people to contribute to the development of JANUS. There are several ways of contributing to JANUS: patches, new features, translation and documentation.

= Contributing code =
The best way of contributing patches or new features to JANUS is to create a [http://code.google.com/p/janus-ssp/issues/entry new issue] and attach the code. Please give time for other users to comment on the supplied patch. So do not expect inclusion of patches strait away.

== Coding standard ==
JANUS is using the PEAR coding standard. Please note that not all requirements from the PEAR coding standard can be followed in JANUS, since the naming is dictated by SSP.

You can find the PEAR coding standard here [http://pear.php.net/manual/en/coding-standards.php here].

Please use [http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer PHP_CodeSniffer] to check your code before committing. The PEAR coding standard are delivered with [http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer PHP_CodeSniffer].

= Contributing translation = 
We would also very much appreciate help on translating JANUS to new languages and to keep the existing translation up to date. All translation are done though the Feide RnD Translation portal located here: [https://translation.rnd.feide.no/]. You can get a free Feide OpenIdP account and get started instantly.

Please se the page about [translation translation]

= Contributing documentation = 
if you would like to contribute to the documentation of JANUS, please create an issue with your contributions. Your contribution wil be proof read and then added to the documentation of JANUS.

= Contributers = 
The following delevopers hvad contributed to the delevopment of JANUS:

 * Jacob Christiansen, WAYF
 * Lorenzo Gil Sanches, Yaco Sistemas
 * Sixto Martin, Yaco Sistemas
 * fidelramos, Yaco Sistemas
 * Ivo Jansch, iBuildings/Egeniq
 * Stein Welberg, Everett
 * Hans Zandbelt, SURFnet
 * Lucas van Lierop, iBuildings

Functionallity for JSON encoding and decoding prior to PHP 5.2.0 is developed by:

 * Michal Migurski
 * Matt Knapp
 * Brett Stimmerman

If your name is missing from the list, please leave a comment and we will add you as soon as possible.